documentation:S3C-4390 listS3Credentials should return secret keys (#45)
scality/vmware-ose-scality: Design.md

1. The `get-policy` API will be called with the `userPolicy@[account-id]` policy name using assumed role credentials
1. If the `get-policy` API does not return any policy, using the assumed role credentials creates an IAM managed policy with the `userPolicy@[account-id]` policy name with full S3 access.
1. `attach-policy` for the new user will be called using the assumed role credentials and the policy arn formatted as `arn:aws:iam::[account-id]:policy/userPolicy@[account-id]`.

> 1. IAM `generate-access-key` api will be called using assumed role credentials

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The IAM `generate-access-key` API will be called using assumed role credentials.
```

> 1. Encrypt the `secret-key` using AES algorithm and store the encrypted `secret-key` on Redis Cache in the hash named as `OSIS` with the hash-key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Encrypt the secret key using the AES algorithm. Store the encrypted secret key on Redis Cache in the hash named "OSIS", with the hash key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`. 
```

> 1. Encrypt the `secret-key` using AES algorithm and store the encrypted `secret-key` on Redis Cache in the hash named as `OSIS` with the hash-key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`. 

Reviewer 2: Per discussion, it should be in base 64 right?
As there will be multiple keys stored, I would suggest checking out Utapi, for the format.

Reviewer 2: Also worth mentioning redis-sentinel.

Author: This is changed after discussing with Vianney over Slack. We decided that AES is more secure when stored on Redis than just base64 encoding. AES private key will be provided on `application.properties` for OSIS and should be common for all nodes running OSIS.

Reviewer 2: Makes sense :) 
Just wanted to be sure.

> 1. Encrypt the secret key using the AES algorithm. Store the encrypted secret key on Redis Cache in the hash named "OSIS", with the hash key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`. 

Reviewer 3: Since data will be encrypted using a symmetric key (to be defined which block cipher mode to be used, by the way...), please make sure key rotation is taken into account from day 0. I believe I saw somewhere the key is to be stored in some file somewhere, fine, but please build the system such that multiple keys can be defined, they can be rotated over time, and which key to be used to decrypt can be retrieved from the data (meta-information next to the encrypted string).

Author: @NicolasT 
Sure. I will change the design to use `AES256GCM`. 

Regarding rotating keys management, please correct if my understanding is correct. 
* We will add multiple keys to the `application.properties` config file and same values will exist on all nodes running OSIS application.
* During encryption, we will use one of the keys _(key will be chosen in a round robin fashion)_ to encrypt the data.
* Concat the cipher text with metadata regarding the key used.
* During decryption, use the metadata to identify the key used and use the key from the `application.properties` to decrypt the cipher
* We will have limited number of keys _(Say 10, if not please suggest)_ and we shall never remove them from the config file on any OSIS node.
* We will encode the keys using Base64 before putting them on config files. So these keys will be decoded by OSIS before using them in AES encryption.

Reviewer 3: > During encryption, we will use one of the keys (key will be chosen in a round robin fashion) to encrypt the data.

No, that's not what I meant by 'rotation'. Key rotation means you can replace a key with another one once the original key is either compromised, or there's some rule which dictates how long a key may be used. It's not about "Using a bunch of keys all at the same time".

> We will have limited number of keys (Say 10, if not please suggest) and we shall never remove them from the config file on any OSIS node.
The intent is exactly to be *able* to remove a key from the config file, after it's been rotate out.

Often this is implemented as follows: indeed, in some configuration, you keep some 'key slots', mapping a unique value (say, an incrementing natural) to a key and the encryption method used. So, at first:

```
keys:
  - id: 0
    cipher: AES256GCM
    key: abcdef
```
You take the 'first' key out of that list, use it to encrypt, and indeed keep "key 0 was used" in meta-information with the encrypted value. Now, say, the key was compromised. So, you change the configuration:
```
keys:
  - id: 1
    cipher: AESCBC+PKCS7
    secretKey: qwerty
  - id: 0
    cipher: AES256GCM
    secretKey: abcdef
```
From now on, all new data will be encrypted with the new key, using a stronger encryption scheme. Now, we need a procedure which will read all encrypted values from the datastore and decrypt them (at least of they use scheme `0`), then re-crypt them (now using scheme `1`), and store them again in the datastore, overwriting the original value.
Once all data has been recrypted, we can remove slot `0` from the config:
```
keys:
  - id: 1
    cipher: AESCBC+PKCS7
    secretKey: qwerty
```
If key `1` is not compromised, but we simply want to use another cipher for future data, without recrypting existing data, it can simply be added:
```
keys:
  - id: 2
    cipher: Secretbox
    secretKey: thisisareallylongandstrongkey
  - id: 1
    cipher: AESCBC+PKCS7
    secretKey: qwerty
```
-----
Also, consider Secretbox instead of AESGCM, which gives both encryption and MAC at once. And take care of properly using nonces, which should also go in the meta-information.

Author: @NicolasT 
So do we need to expose a new API or route to refresh the keys on Redis for re-crypting. Otherwise there is no other way we can ensure all the original data is re-crypted. 

Risk here is, if we miss any of the data to re-crypt or while any of the data failed re-crypting , then we will get errors on our application as it will not be able to decrypt as we do not have the original key which encrypted it.

Reviewer 3: It's not necessarily some API or some route. Can simply be a utility/script which, given a configuration file, can so what's required against a Redis database. Key rotation is a 'triggered' procedure anyway (either manually, or automatically). The procedure is "Add key to config file(s), run this command to recrypt, if successful, remove old data from config file(s)". The recrypt operation is idempotent, so if it fails intermittently for some reason, one can re-run it.

Reviewer 3: One more clarification: in the example above, I use multiple cipher methods. However, that does not mean we should *support* more than one method *today*. However, we should be able to move to another cipher in the future. Hence, we need to have the 'hooks' to do so in the data model today.

But again, in the implementation, we should only pick and support (in the code) a single one, today.

Author: Updated the design in 62be69907e2e8e3de9ca7e66a2987e39b13f6947

Author: For now given the timeline, I am going ahead with `AES256GCM` and will support `secretBox` in future implementations

> 1. Log the `access-key-id` _(Log location and tools for logging are yet to be decided)_

Reviewer: Either: 
Log the access key ID
or 
Log the `access-key-id` object

> 1. Log the `access-key-id` _(Log location and tools for logging are yet to be decided)_

Reviewer 2: What are we referring to here as log location and tools?

Author: As per the @vrancurel 's suggestion above, I added this. We need to log the access key ids that we store on Vault using OSIS. This log file can be used to differentiate the keys created by OSIS and by other ways on Vault DB. This file is also useful when Redis crashes and we need to delete the keys created by OSIS.

> 1. Log the access key ID _(Log location and tools for logging are yet to be decided)_

Author: Created a ticket for the logging of access key ids after every `create-access-key` by OSIS.
https://scality.atlassian.net/browse/S3C-4542
Design and implementation will be handled as part of it

### Create S3 Credential
This API creates S3 credentials for the user.
1. The Generate Access Key API will be called using assumed role credentials.
1. Encrypt the secret key (For more, see [SecretKey-Encryption-Strategy](#SecretKey-Encryption-Strategy)). Store the encrypted secret key on Redis Sentinel in the hash named "osis:s3credentials", with the hash key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`.
1. Log the access key ID _(Log location and tools for logging are yet to be decided)_

**Important Notes:**
* Redis Sentinel is subject to an ongoing rolling deployment.
* If Redis Sentinel fails or crashes, the vCloud Director's OSE service must be restarted with the following command:_
    ```shell
    $ ose service restart
    ```

>   * All access keys created by OSIS before OSE restart time (`ose-restart-time`) are dead keys on the Vault DB, which OSE/OSIS cannot use and must be manually deleted from the Vault. 

Reviewer 3: What about any workloads running (while OSE is restarted) and using this keypair for authentication? Would an OSE service restart require these applications to get new credentials somehow (and hence potentially restart) as well?

Author: Addressed in 1779625549f7a9e63533d01d48aa33d3f491abb4

> Once OSE service restart process is finished,
     * OSE will invoke `listS3Credentials` API to identify the keys for object storage operations. OSIS will return only an empty list for `listS3Credentials` API (as no key  is available for the user on Redis).
     * If no keys are present for a user, OSE will invoke `createS3Credentials` API to create a new key for object storage operations.

>   * A log location for all the dead access key IDs created by OSIS, and a script to run manually, to delete these dead keys from Vault DB, will be provided.

Reviewer 3: This 'manual interaction required' could be a bit of an issue, no? All too easy not to perform this action, amassing garbage in the Vault DB. Can't our plugin delete these upon initialization or something?

Author: The reason for manual interaction is that Vault DB can also have the keys created other than OSIS. Once Redis crashes/restarts,  we lose the track of keys created by OSIS. This log location helps us to identify the keys created only by OSIS and will be easy to avoid deleting the keys created by other ways like CLI

>   * A log location for all the dead access key IDs created by OSIS, and a script to run manually, to delete these dead keys from Vault DB, will be provided.
> * Redis Sentinel only supports **4294967295 (approx. 4.2 billion)** number of keys to be stored in the hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * A log location for all the dead access key IDs created by OSIS and a script to run manually to delete these dead keys from the Vault DB, is provided.
  * Redis Sentinel only supports storing **4294967295** (approx. 4.2 billion) keys in the hash.
```

### Create S3 Credential
This API creates S3 credentials for the user.
1. The Generate Access Key API will be called using assumed role credentials.
1. Encrypt the secret key (For more, see [SecretKey-Encryption-Strategy](#SecretKey-Encryption-Strategy)). Store the encrypted secret key on Redis Sentinel in the hash named "osis:s3credentials", with the hash key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`.
1. Log the access key ID _(Log location and tools for logging are yet to be decided)_

**Important Notes:**

> * Redis Sentinel is subject to an ongoing rolling deployment.

Reviewer 4: @saitharunthodupunuru @terrydervaux 
What is the difference between "an ongoing rolling upgrade" and "a rolling upgrade"? This seems superfluous the way it is written. Was our intention to insinuate that the OSIS data would not survive if Redis Sentinel was upgraded in parallel?

> * Redis Sentinel is subject to an ongoing rolling deployment.

Author: @scality-trevorbenson 
 Yes the idea here is to do rolling upgrades to Redis sentinel to avoid any loss of OSIS data during the parallel upgrade. Please suggest if you think otherwise.
 
 Here "an ongoing rolling upgrade" was added to mention that any ongoing upgrades should be a rolling deployment. And "a rolling upgrade" may suggest it to be generic. I felt "an ongoing rolling upgrade" has no ambiguity.

> * Redis Sentinel is subject to an ongoing rolling deployment.

Reviewer 5: @saitharunthodupunuru: I suggest you remove that line because it creates confusion. Instead you can change the next line to say something like:
> If the Redis Sentinel data loss happens due to, for instance, an entire cluster failure, OSIS will not be able to list access keys created before the Redis Sentinel data loss. 
> In that case, The vCloud Director's OSE service must be restarted with the following command:

> * If Redis Sentinel fails or crashes, the vCloud Director's OSE service must be restarted with the following command:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* If the entire Redis Sentinel cluster fails or crashes, the vCloud Director's OSE service must be restarted with the following command:
```

Author: fixed in e87f4cb37a396aa2237d83bf61f623d6fb24ccc4

    ```shell
    $ ose service restart

>     ```

Reviewer 2: Out of curiosity: what type of failure are we expecting on redis-sentinel which will require OSE to be restarted?

If redis-sentinel has quorum then there shouldn't be a need to restarting OSE service.

Author: That is true Redis sentinel provides automatic failover and is highly available. This is a scenario for a rainy day when Redis Master and all it's Replicas fail (As we won't have any source of truth other than Redis)

Reviewer 2: I would suggest then mentioning it explicitly. 
What we mean here by fail/crashes? (Maybe loss of quorum or if redis sentinel cluster is not available)

Author: Fixed it in e87f4cb37a396aa2237d83bf61f623d6fb24ccc4

  * Once OSE service restart process is finished,
     * OSE will invoke `listS3Credentials` API to identify the keys for object storage operations. OSIS will return only an empty list for `listS3Credentials` API (as no key  is available for the user on Redis).
     * If no keys are present for a user, OSE will invoke `createS3Credentials` API to create a new key for object storage operations.
  * All access keys created by OSIS before OSE restart time (`ose-restart-time`) are dead keys on the Vault DB, which OSE/OSIS cannot use and must be manually deleted from the Vault. 

>   * A log location for all the dead access key IDs created by OSIS and a script to run manually to delete these dead keys from the Vault DB, is provided.

Reviewer 2: Will this be an ansible playbook?

Author: This needs to be a separate script and will be used only in an extreme situation of Redis total System fail. I am still not sure if this can be an ansible playbook.

>   * All access keys created by OSIS before OSE restart time (`ose-restart-time`) are dead keys on the Vault DB, which OSE/OSIS cannot use and must be manually deleted from the Vault. 
>   * A log location for all the dead access key IDs created by OSIS and a script to run manually to delete these dead keys from the Vault DB, is provided.

Reviewer 5: Access keys are not necessarily dead keys, for instance, if a vCloud Director Tenant User creates access keys and puts them in his application. After Redis sentinel data lost + OSIS reboot, those keys are still used.

I suggest we give vCloud Director Tenant Users the responsibility to clean unused access keys using S3 console or IAM API because vCloud Director Tenant Users are the only ones who knows if the keys are used or not.

This design issue should be mention in the customer-facing documentation has a technical limitation due to VMware OSE/OSIS framework. 
```suggestion
  * Access keys created by OSIS before OSE restart time (`ose-restart-time`) will not be listed by OSIS. vCloud Director Tenant Users are responsible to clean up unused access keys using S3 console or IAM API because they are the only one who knows if the access keys are in used or not.
  * Access key IDs generated by OSIS will be logged
```

Reviewer 2: I agree :)
I was thinking as well, about the "dead" word.

Reviewer 4: @saitharunthodupunuru  I'm not sure I understand this one fully yet. 

Are we saying that any OSE restart:

1. Orphans access keys prior to the restart time
2. Orphaned keys won't be shown in vCloud Director 
3. The vCloud Director Tenant User will need to use the S3 Console or IAM API to:
    a.) Delete the unlisted (orphaned) key
    b.) Recreate a new access key (either in s3console, IAM API or vCloud Director)
4. Replace in their application the orphaned key pair (access+secret key) with the new key pair from step 3b.?

Author: @scality-trevorbenson 
The above design is to mention that if entire Redis cluster fails, it will lose all the data on it including the access keys created by OSIS. If that happens all those keys cannot be listed by OSIS on OSE UI. 
* OSE has some kind of cache to itself which handles the keys on it when accessed but if OSIS is not displaying the keys, there will be an mismatch in terms of keys by OSE and OSIS. To avoid such scenario, it is suggested to restart OSE if entire Redis sentinel cluster crashes to clear the cache on OSE. Once this is done, OSE automatically creates new keys as OSIS cannot return the keys which are not present on Redis.
* The keys deleted from Redis cannot be managed through OSE as OSIS cannot return them.
* The keys which are not shown on OSE by OSIS were earlier termed as `dead` can still be used in the applications which has procured them before the crash. It is mentioned here that the responsibility of the maintenance of these keys are by the tenant user.

Author: @terrydervaux  fixed it in e87f4cb37a396aa2237d83bf61f623d6fb24ccc4

Reviewer 4: @saitharunthodupunuru This sounds like a redis crash of any kind could puts an extremely large amount of work in the hands of the tenant to fix, for example if tenants have tens or hundreds of keys for different apps. Is there any viable way to make a full redis restart refresh the cache of OSIS keys, therefore making it completely transparent to the tenant user the redis crash occurred?

If we can provide this functionality I think it would drastically reduce the problems presented by a redis crash. However I will understand if there is no simple way to make this transparent, and if so the rest of the PR LGTM for approval.

Author: The problem here is Vault does not return `secretKeys` any time after it is created so there is no way we can refresh the existing keys by OSIS on Redis if that data is lost. OSE always expects OSIS to return `secretKeys` in plaintext when needed. 

And this is the primary disadvantage when we use Redis as a Database.  As Redis is just an in-memory data store, all we need to do is to maintain Redis Master and replicas to not lose data.

I understand the ordeal is not straight forward or not simple but this is there just for a rainy day which we don't expect often

>   * Redis Sentinel only supports storing **4294967295** (approx. 4.2 billion) keys in the hash.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Redis Sentinel only supports storing **4294967295** (approx. 4.2 billion) keys in the hash.
```

Author: fixed in a7b6b598aa22174d036796d548261821f49edc71

### Create S3 Credential
This API creates S3 credential for the user.
1. `generate-access-key` api will be called using assumed role credentials.
1. Encrypt the `secret-key` using Base64 encoder and store the encrypted `secret-key` on Redis Cache with key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`.

> 

Reviewer 6: Can we store them in a sub-set ? to avoid polluting the global namespace ?

Author: Sure we can store all the [hash-key, value] pairs in a hash named `osis` to avoid any confusion

Author: Addressed in 9e7c162b06f6f686a847a767ce61219fd4caaf9f

### Create S3 Credential
This API creates S3 credential for the user.
1. `generate-access-key` api will be called using assumed role credentials.
1. Encode the `secret-key` using Base64 encoder and store the encoded `secret-key` on Redis Cache with key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`.

_Notes:_
* _Redis cache will always be rolling deployed._

> * _If OSE restarts, all the access keys created before the `ose-restart-time` needs to be deleted from Vault. A script will be provided to be run manually only when OSE is restarted._ 

Reviewer 5: > all the access keys created before the `ose-restart-time`

vCloud Director Tenant Users can generate access keys programmatically using IAM API. If your script deletes all the access keys in Vault created  before `ose-restart-time`, you will also delete the keys generated programmatically. 

Your script must affect only the keys created by OSE/OSIS.

Author: As @vrancurel suggested above, we actually do not need to clear the keys but need to log the `access keys` created by OSIS. So later if we want to delete these keys created before certain date, these `access-key-ids` will be used.

Author: I will add a note regarding the logging for OSIS created access keys

Author: Addressed in 9e7c162b06f6f686a847a767ce61219fd4caaf9f

### Create S3 Credential

> This API creates S3 credential for the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API creates S3 credentials for the user.
```

> 1. `generate-access-key` api will be called using assumed role credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1.  The Generate Access Key API will be called using assumed role credentials.
```

> 1. Encrypt the `secret-key` using AES algorithm and store the encrypted `secret-key` on Redis Cache in the hash named as `OSIS` with the hash-key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Encrypt the secret key using the AES algorithm. Store the encrypted secret key on Redis Cache in the hash named "OSIS", with the hash key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`.
```

> 1. Log the `access-key-id` _(Log location and tools for logging are yet to be decided)_

Reviewer: Either: 
Log `access-key-id`
or 
Log the access key ID

Author: ```suggestion
1. Log the access key ID _(Log location and tools for logging are yet to be decided)_
```

**Important Notes:**

> * Redis cache shall always be rolling deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Redis cache is subject to an ongoing rolling deployment.
```

> * I total Redis Sentinel fails or crashes,  vCloud Director OSE service needs to be restarted with the following command._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If Redis Sentinel fails or crashes, the vCloud Director's OSE service must be restarted with the following command:_
```

    ```shell
    $ ose service restart
    ```

>   * All the access keys created by OSIS before the `ose-restart-time` will be dead access keys on Vault DB which OSE/OSIS will never be able to use and can only be deleted manually from the Vault. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * All access keys created by OSIS before OSE restart time (`ose-restart-time`) are dead keys on the Vault DB, which OSE/OSIS cannot use and must be manually deleted from the Vault. 
```

>   * A log location for all the dead access key IDs created by OSIS, and a script to run manually will be provided.

Reviewer: What does the script do? Why would I want to run it?

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: ```suggestion
  * A log location for all the dead access key IDs created by OSIS, and a script to run manually, to delete these dead keys from Vault DB, will be provided.
```

### List S3 Credentials
This API list S3 credentials of the  user.
1. `list-access-keys` api will be called using assumed role credentials.

> 2. Retrieve the `secret-keys` from Redis cache with key formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Retrieve the secret keys, formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`, from Redis cache.
```

> 3. Decrypt the `secret-keys` using AES and add them to the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Decrypt the secret keys using AES and add them to the response.
```

> 3. Decrypt the `secret-keys` using AES and add them to the response.

Reviewer 2: Same here, weren't we using base 64? Or was it changed on Friday to using AES?

Reviewer 4: Sai described to me on Friday as using AES. 

Given the description above using `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>` as the method to store/retrieve the secret key in Redis cache would not be secure enough with base64 encoding. I'd presume AES change was to prevent access to Redis cache allowing associating access key and a decoded secret key.

Author: As mentioned above,

> This is changed to AES after discussing with Vianney over Slack. We decided that AES is more secure when stored on Redis than just base64 encoding. AES private key will be provided on `application.properties` for OSIS and should be common for all nodes running OSIS.

Reviewer 2: Cool, Just wanted to make sure this is what we are intending to do. I was on PTO so this was new to me.
Makes sense on the security side.

Also we will be using hash key to avoid root namespace: https://github.com/scality/vmware-ose-scality/pull/45#discussion_r632161118

### List S3 Credentials
This API list S3 credentials of the  user.
1. `list-access-keys` api will be called using assumed role credentials.

> 2. Retrieve the secret keys, formatted as `<Username>__<AccessKeyID>`, from Redis Sentinel.

Reviewer 2: Do we send keys that are in `INACTIVE` state as well?

Author: Yes. This OSIS `listS3Credentials` API will return IAM `INACTIVE` the keys with the `active` flag as `false`

3. Decrypt the secret keys (For more, see [SecretKey-Encryption-Strategy](#SecretKey-Encryption-Strategy)) and add them to the response.

> 4. Exclude the keys in the response that are not present in the Redis Sentinel.

Reviewer 5: Maybe I will say something stupid, but, can we replace the secret access key with `not available anymore, the access keys can be deleted if unused` and not exclude them. So that vCloud Director Users will be able to clean up what you called `dead keys` directly from vCloud Director UI.

Author: According to initial plan when OSE restarts it will invoke `listS3Credentials` and if it receives an empty response, OSE invokes a `createS3Credential` to create a new key for all S3 operations.

With the given idea when OSE restarts and invokes `listS3Credentials`, as Redis restarted, OSIS need to create a new key and include that in the response along with other keys with secret-key as `not available anymore`. Also there is no guarantee OSE will not pick any of the keys with `not available anymore` value. There is no primary key concept in the keys to make sure OSE will always pick given key for S3 operations.

Reviewer 5: I'm not sure to understand, by initial plan you mean our OSIS design right? If yes, why can't we change it? I would prefer that we implement the logic to check if there are no keys in Redis then generate new user keys and insert them in the right place on OSIS/listS3Credentials response so that OSE will pick up the right one to perform the S3 operations. I think this is a lot better than login into the S3 console(which not really possible for a vCloud Director Tenant Users) or using IAM API to cleanup keys.

In my proposition, I'm assuming that the user keys pickup by OSE in OSIS/listS3Credentials response is predictable.

Author: Added a new commit for this change 9f4bec93527b6768b4a6d03e6c5dea0932dc4881

        * `key` : `offset` and `value` : `marker`
    1. `AssumeRoleCache` for all the `User` and `S3 Credential` APIs
        * `key` : `RoleArn` and `value` : `Credentials`

## SecretKey Encryption Strategy

> 1. For encrypting/ decrypting the `secret-keys` a `cipher` algorithm, and a `secret-password` will be used. These properties will be provided in `crypto.properties` config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Secret keys are encrypted and decrypted using a cipher algorithm and secret password provided in the `crypto.properties` config file.
```

1. A `key-id` property will be provided for each `secret-password` in the `crypto.properties` config file to maintain the version of the key and will be used in the Key rotation.

> 1. Meta-information will be encoded with base64 and added at the beginning of the encrypted string. This meta information will include the `key-id` of the `secret-password` used.

Reviewer 3: This will also need to include the nonce used, most likely?

Author: Fixed in 380d8acd7a40b01860989f28d0eb985b95fc5a61

> 1. All the secret-passwords in the `crypto.properties` config file will be base64 encoded. These secret-passwords will be decoded using base64 before encrypting the `secret-keys`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. All the secret passwords in the `crypto.properties` config file are base64-encoded. These secret passwords are decoded using base64 before encrypting the secret keys.
```

> 1. Initially only `AES256GCM` cipher algorithm will be supported. (`secret-box` algorithm is suggested to be implemented for future releases)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Initially, only the AES256GCM cipher algorithm is supported. (The Secretbox algorithm is suggested for future releases)
```

> 1. Adaptability to change the cipher algorithm will be provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. An ability to change the cipher algorithm will be provided.
```

1. Example `crypto.properties`
    ```yaml
    keys:
      - id: 2
        cipher: Secretbox
        secretKey: dGhpc2lzYXJlYWxseWxvbmdhbmRzdHJvbmdrZXk=
    ```
1. **Key Rotation:**
    * Key rotation is used to replace a key with another one once the original key is compromised or too old to use.

>     * A new API will be provided with the `OSIS` application to do the key rotation of all the encrypted `secret-key` data on Redis database. 

Reviewer 3: I'm not convinced this must be an API. Please elaborate as to why this must necessarily be API-driven.

Author: As we are going to provide these keys in a properties file, we definitely need to reload this file on Spring boot.
Easiest and cleanest way to do this is using Spring Actuator `/refresh` API. 

I thought of two approaches to do the key rotation:
1. As we are going to call the `/refresh` API anyways, it is easy to reuse the same code used for encryption/decryption to refresh the cipher texts on Redis during this refresh API call.
  * By calling this API, the program will retry and will not return until all the keys are rotated.
2. We can also provide a small standalone application jar with the same encryption/decryption code packed in it. 
  * First this standalone application can CURL `/refresh` API to refresh the properties file and OSIS can use latest keys for new usage.
  * Then this program will refresh the cipher texts on Redis using the latest key. 
  * If that is not a success we can recall it

Please suggest which one soubds better.

Reviewer 3: I prefer the latter. The actual rotation is not the driver's job: the driver (assuming it's correctly configured) works just fine with all secrets, whether they're encrypted using some old key, some new key, whether they're being rotated,... The actual rotation can be a process that's running in parallel with the driver, and hence shouldn't (IMHO) be 'inside' the driver. Having this as an out-of-band operation one can invoke (essentially) at any point in time enforces us to keep things 'clean' and not have the driver to more than it should.

Reviewer 3: Also, is such `/refresh` API call really needed? Can't the driver be restarted when there's a new config? What would the effect of such (temporal) unavailability of the driver be?

Keep in mind key rotation is not something one does every other day. It's a very 'special' operation.

Author: Updated in 1fce348

Author: Related to `/refresh` API, my only concern is after the key rotation application run is complete, if a new user is created, until OSIS access the existing values on database it will not refresh the config and will not know about the update in the keys.

There is a possibility that new entries might still be created on database using the old keys after the key rotation. My suggestion would be:
1. Do not delete the old key form the original config file. Add only the new key above it with the incremented `key-id`.
2. After data is retrieved from database, `OSIS` application should always check if the `key-id` found is the **latest** `key-id`. If not re-encrypt the values on database using the **latest** `key-id`

>         1. Key rotation API will use the meta-information of the encrypted data to identify the `key-id` used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1. A key rotation API will use the encrypted data's meta-information to identify the `key-id` used.
```

        1. Each `secret-key` will be decrypted using the old cipher algorithm (identified using the `key-id`).
        1. `secret-key` value will be re-encrypted using the latest cipher algorithm and updated on Redis.
        1. This API will be idempotent.

>         1. This API need to be re-run until it returns success which means all the `secret-key` values on Redis are re-encrypted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1. This API must be re-run until it returns `success`, indicating that all `secret-key` values on Redis have been re-encrypted. 
```

>     * `config.properties` will be updated with the latest keys.

Reviewer 3: The first step in the procedure is to add a new 'latest' key slot to the config, this seems to be missing. At this point, *old* slots may be removed from the config.

Author: Fixed in 380d8acd7a40b01860989f28d0eb985b95fc5a61

>     * A `refresh` API will be provided with the `OSIS` application to reload the latest keys from the `config.properties` file.

Reviewer 3: Also, the application should re-read its config file when it finds a key-id in an entry retrieved from the datastore that it hasn't seen before.

Author: Fixed in 380d8acd7a40b01860989f28d0eb985b95fc5a61

        * `key` : `offset` and `value` : `marker`
    1. `AssumeRoleCache` for all the `User` and `S3 Credential` APIs
        * `key` : `RoleArn` and `value` : `Credentials`

## SecretKey Encryption Strategy

1. Secret keys are encrypted and decrypted using a cipher algorithm and secret password provided in the `crypto.yml` config file.
1. A `key-id` property will be provided for each `secret-password` in the `crypto.yml` config file to maintain the version of the key and will be used in the Key rotation.
1. Meta-information will be encoded with base64 and added at the beginning of the encrypted string. This meta information will include the `key-id` of the `secret-password` used.

> 1. If a `nonce` exists for the encrypted string, it will be added after the meta information in the result string.

Reviewer 3: A nonce will always exist, and could be part of the meta-information. I wouldn't structure this as "Stuff is stored by encoding key-id using some mechanism, then append the nonce to it, then append the encrypted string to it". Instead, define a (versioned? Or protobuf-style?) structure which contains all the information required (key-id, nonce, encrypted string,...) and store a serialization of this.

Author: Fixed in 1fce348510aa482965c5a3a6ae1ea93beb31879d

Author: Modified serialization issues as suggested in 475cacd3a3e852b66ca20ae6f5320ae38faf75f9

1. All the secret passwords in the `crypto.yml` config file are base64-encoded. These secret passwords are decoded using base64 before encrypting the secret keys.
1. Initially, only the AES256GCM cipher algorithm is supported. (The Secretbox algorithm is suggested for future releases)
1. An ability to change the cipher algorithm will be provided.
1. Example `crypto.yml`
    ```yaml
    keys:
      - id: 2

>         cipher: Secretbox

Reviewer 3: May want to fix the example, since above it's stated only AES256GCM is supported :wink:

Author: Fixed in 1fce348 😃

        * `key` : `offset` and `value` : `marker`
    1. `AssumeRoleCache` for all the `User` and `S3 Credential` APIs
        * `key` : `RoleArn` and `value` : `Credentials`

## SecretKey Encryption Strategy

1. Secret keys are encrypted and decrypted using a cipher algorithm and secret password provided in the `crypto.yml` config file.

> 1. A `key-id` property will be provided for each `secret-password` in the `crypto.yml` config file to maintain the version of the key and will be used in the Key rotation.

Reviewer 3: It's not a password. Let's not call it `password`. Also, when I read this not knowing what comes after, I'd assume this says there is some `secret-password` key in some YAML structure, which is not the case. TBH I'm not sure what this sentence conveys.

Author: Fixed in 1779625

    * `keyId` variable will be of type String and stores the `key-id` property.
    * `encryptedData` will be a byte array and stores the encrypted data bytes.
    * `cipherInformation` will be an encapsulation to store all the additional information used by the cipher algorithm.
        * Example: For `AES256GCM` algorithm, `cipherInformation` encapsulates the `nonce` variable, which will be a byte array and stores the nonce bytes.
1. Java object of class `SecretKeyRepoData` will be serialized and stored as binary in Redis
1. During decryption, `key-id` in the meta information can be used to identify the cipher algorithm used.
1. Initially, only the AES256GCM cipher algorithm is supported. (The Secretbox algorithm is suggested for future releases)
1. An ability to change the cipher algorithm will be provided.
1. Example `crypto.yml`
    ```yaml
    keys:
      - id: 1
        cipher: AES256GCM
        secretKey: dGhpc2lzYXJlYWxseWxvbmdhbmRzdHJvbmdrZXk=
    ```
1. **Key Rotation:**
    * Key rotation is used to replace a key with another one once the original key is compromised or too old to use.

>     * `crypto.yml` file will be updated with a new key slot.

Reviewer 3: Need to specify the 'order' of slots in the `keys` list. Should the 'new' key go first? Or last?

Author: Fixed in 1779625

> `crypto.yml` file will be updated with a new key slot on top of `keys` list with an incremented `id` value.

>     * A new key will be updated in the `crypto.yml` file.

Reviewer 3: Not sure what this means or how it's different from the previous line.

Author: Duplicate line. Fixed in 1779625

1. During decryption, `keyId` in the meta information will be used to identify applied the cipher algorithm.
1. Initially, only the AES256GCM cipher algorithm is supported. (The Secretbox algorithm is suggested for future releases)
1. An ability to change the cipher algorithm will be provided.
1. **Key Rotation:**
    * Key rotation is used to replace a key with another one once the original key is compromised or too old to use.
    * `crypto.yml` file will be updated with a new key slot on top of `keys` list with an incremented `id` value.
    * A key rotation application jar file will be provided to do the key rotation of all the encrypted `secret-key` data on Redis database. 
        1. Key rotation application will use the meta-information of the encrypted data to identify the `keyId` used.
        1. Each `secret-key` will be decrypted using the old cipher algorithm (identified using the `keyId`).
        1. `secret-key` value will be re-encrypted using the latest cipher algorithm and updated on Redis.
        1. This key rotation application need to be re-run until it returns success which means all the `secret-key` values on Redis are re-encrypted. 

>     * During decryption, if a new `keyId` is found, `OSIS` application will reload the `crypto.yml` file

Reviewer 2: Will key rotation job be a background job with something like supervisors?

Author: A manual intervention is needed in this key rotation. If this needs to be a background job needs an automatic key rotation mechanism to be implemented like AWS KMS. I think we can add that integration when we implement KMS with automatic key rotation.

Reviewer 3: Indeed, manual invocation as part of the key rotation procedure (which includes 'generating' a new random key and putting it in the configuration file(s)) should be fine for now. This procedure is to be written/documented, but should contain of roughly these steps:
1. Generate a new random key, encoded using base64: `openssl rand -base64 $(( 256 / 8 ))`
2. Add this new key in the secrets configuration, as a new (and the 'used') slot
3. Trigger OSIS to start using this new crypto slot for any new key it stores (and hence, encrypts)
4. Launch the rotation utility which will retrieve and (if needed) re-crypt and store old keys, now using the latest one
5. Repeat the previous until (successful) completion if needed
6. Remove the old key slot from the secrets configuration
7. Optionally, trigger OSIS to reload the config and fully forget the old, now-unused key slot
